Northampton County, NC - Court Records

File contributed for use in USGenWeb Archives by
Gerald L. Byrd <gbyrd@sitestar.net>


Northampton County, North Carolina Minutes:
Docket, Court of Pleas, and Quarter Sessions
1792-1796


March 5, 1792, the sixteenth year of our Independence


.Francis and Michael Deloatch. summoned as jurors to the next court..
June 4, 1792, Monday


September 3, 1792


Thomas Futral to Shadrach Futral, Deed acknowledged and ordered to be 
registered. (p. 29)

Jacob Adams to James Bristow, Deed proved by Shadrach Futral and ordered 
to be registered.  (p. 31)


December 3, 1792                       


..ordered that the following persons be summoned as jurors..Thomas Futrill
..David Futrill.


March of 1793


John Futrell is appointed overseer instead of ____?_______ Futral  p. 49)

.ordered that the following Gentlemen be sworn and charged as grand jurors
Thomas Futrill..David Futrill
(p. 49)


June 3, 1793


.the following Gentlemen of the Grand Jury were sworn and charged to witness  
James Vincent, foreman  Dempsey Futrill  Sanders Futrill  
(p. 65)

..John Futrill qualified as exec. To Last Will and Testament of Abraham 
Joyner.. (page 65)

..John Futrell as surety to estate of John Clifton ..(p. 66)

William Ricks to David Futrell,  Deed of Gift proved by oath of Thomas Bowers 
and ordered to be registered.(p. 68)


September 2, 1793


.an account of the sales of the estate of Abraham Joyer dec.d returned on 
oath by John Futrall ex. And ordered to be registered  (p. 81)

..the following persons were summoned as jurors for the next court..Thomas 
Futrale,..Sanders Futrill.David Futrill.John Futrall..John Futrall, Sen. 
..(p. 81)


December 2, 1793


.Last Will and Testament of William Ricks was exhibited into Court and proved 
by the Oaths of Elliot Futral..Ethelred Futral..at the same time David Futral 
and Thomas Futral qualified exe. Hereto ordered to be certified and recorded
(p. 85)

.Last Will and Testament of Winborn Jenkins was acknowledged and proved by the 
oaths of Hudson Thompson and Dempsey Futrell.

..the following persons were summoned as Grand Jurors.Saunders Futral.David 
Futral.Thomas Futral.. (p. 87)

William Futral and Sampson Futral to John Futral, Deed proved by David Futral 
and ordered to be registered.   (p. 88)


Lawrence Futral to William Darden, Deed acknowledged and ordered to be registered.


March 3, 1794


..ordered that William Maget, Geddick Darden, Jacob Odom, Abraham Nelson and 
John Futrell-or any two, divide the land of William Ricks agreeable to law and 
that he make a report to the next court.(p. 94)

..ordered that Winborne Jenkins be appointed guardian to Jason  Ricks, orphan 
of William Ricks dec.d into bond of  1500 pounds; Joel Futral, his surety.

An inventory of the estate of  William Ricks decd  returned on Oath by Joel Futral 
and Thomas Futrall, exe. And ordered to be recorded (p. 100)

Sampson Futrale to John Futrale , Deed proved by the Oath of Michael Revell 
ordered to be recorded.

.ordered that John Futrale be allowed the sum of 8 pounds, and 8 shillings for 
6 days attending the last court as Constable. (p. 115)


September 5, 1794


..the following Negroes and slaves Lewis, Joe, W Davie. were brought to the Bars 
and charged with having murdered Nathaniel Norwood whereupon the jury imperiled 
and sworn..viz. Benjamin Deberry, Benjamin Howell, William Jones, Thomas Futral, 
William Bridgers, John Brown, Joseph Moore, John Futral, Richards Sumner, Joseph 
Davis, Marley Brown, Henry Cotton who say they are guilty of the murder as 
charged

..the sentence of the Court is that Davie and Joe be hanged by the neck at 4 
o'clock this evening near the Court House and when dead their heads to be severed 
from their bodies and their heads stuck up at the crossroads near the Court House 
Lewis be hanged until nearly dead at 4 o'clock tomorrow at the old field of the 
deceased and his head cut off ; his body burned to ashes and his head stuck upon 
a pole at the same crossroads ordered that the sheriff see the said sentence be 
put into purpose
	Justices: John Peterson, Joseph Crump, Thomas Parker, Thomas Barnett   
(pgs. 126-127)

.ordered that the following gentlemen be summoned to attend the next court as 
jurors in December  Dempsey Futrall, Joel Futrall John Futrall. David Futrall and 
Thomas Futrall….(p. 129)

…..ordered that the estate of Nathaniel Norwood decd pay to the coroner or to the 
guard also to sundry other persons for expenses attending the Negroes executed 
for the murder of Nathaniel Norwood agreeable to account and filed in the office….
p. 129)

…..ordered that the following jurors attend court in December….Dempsey Futrall, 
Joel Futrall,…..David Futrall…Thomas Furall…

….ordered that John Futral be allowed 24 shillings for three days attendance as 
Constable at this court… (p. 130)


December of 1794


…..the following gentlemen have been summoned to serve as Grand Jurors….Joel 
Futral…. (p. 131)

….ordered that John Futrall be allowed the sum of 16 shillings for two days 
attendance on the court as Constable…


March 2, 1795


…..Sarah Joyner to Elizabeth Futrell, Deed of Gift, proved by the oath of Edmund 
Nicolas…. (p. 155)

…..Sampson Futrell to Jordan? Johnson, Deed of Gift proved by the oath of 
Winborne Jenkins….(p. 156)

…..John Futrell to William Darden, Deed proved by the oath of Reddick Darden and 
ordered to be registered…. (p. 158)

……the following persons summoned to serve as jurors……Joel Futrel


June 1, 1795


….the following Gentlemen summoned as jurors…..Joel Futrel…(p. 162)

…..ordered that John Futrel be allowed the sum of 2 pounds and 16 shillings for 
7 days attendance at the December and March courts as Constable….

….the following persons summoned to attend court as jurors……Dempsey Futrall,……
Sanders Futrell….


January 10, 1796


…..jurors chosen for the following court……….Thomas Futrell  (p. 196)

…..ordered that John Futrell be allowed 16 shillings for 2 days attendance to 
the court as constable. (p. 198)

…..arguable to an order of last court, the Sheriff ret/d the verdict of a jury 
summoned and sworn to enguire (agreeable to Act of Assembly &) whether in their 
opinions Peter Sturdivant is capable of management of his estate and whether he 
comes under the discipline of an idiot or Lunatic, who are unanimously of 
opinion that he comes under its description and ought to have a guardian 
appointed agreeable to Act of Assembly.


December 7, 1795


    The Last Will and Testament of David Futrel was proved by Etheldred Futrell 
and Dempsey Futrell at the same time Elliot Futrell qualified as executor ordered 
to be certified and recorded…..( p. 201).

    Edwin  Ricks come into court and chose Shadrack Futrell his guardian who 
entered into bond of 1500 pounds with Thomas Futrell his security…(p. 208)

 …..ordered that William Maget, Lawrence, Daughtry and James Vinson or any two 
audit and settle the accounts of the Thomas Futrell executor of William Ricks 
and make report to next court…. (p. 209.)

…..ordered that Elliot Futrell is appointed guardian to David Futrell orphan of 
David Futrell dec/d who entered into bond of 1000 pounds with John Futrell and 
Joseph Lassiter as security…(p. 211)

….ordered to serve as jurors in the coming court……Dempsey Futrell (p. 212)


March   7, 1796


Anne Futrell widow of David Futrell dec'd came into court and enter her descent 
from the provision made by her husband's Last Will and Testament proved at last 
term ordered….  (p. 219)

On motion, administration is granted Elliot Futrell on the estate of Silas Futrell 
dec'd and ordered and 1000 pounds Sanders Futrell and Winborne Jenkins, sureties 
……..ordered that the estate of Silas Futrell dec'd be sold agreeable to law  
(p. 221)

Inventory of the estate of Silas Futrell dec'd returned on oath by Elliot Futrell 
administrator and ordered to be recorded…

Inventory of the estate of David Futrell dec'd returned on oath and ordered to be 
recorded.  (p.  223)

An amount of the estate of David Futrell dec' returned on oath and ordered to be 
recorded.  (p. 223)

Ephraim Sheffield to John Futrell, Deed proved by oath of Lawerence Futrell and 
ordered to be registered…..(p. 229)

……ordered that……John Futrell…Sanders Futrell to be appointed patrollers in Captain 
Collen's District.  (p. 238)


June 7, 1796


Ordered that Jehu Futrell be allowed 16 shillings for 2 days attendance on this 
Court as Constable. (page 251)


*There is a gap between the minutes of the Northampton Court Minutes: Docket,Court 
of Pleas, and Quarter Sessions from 1796-1813.
*On some pages the page numbers are illegible.


Northampton County, North Carolina Minutes;
Docket, Court of Pleas, and Quarter Sessions
1813-1816


March 1, 1813


….Grand Jurors drawn for the next court….David Futrell


March 4, 1813


…..jury for the next court…..Willie Futrell


March 5, 1813


…..jurors chosen….John Futrell, Jr…….Littleberry Futrell.

Thomas Outlaw is named Constable in Captain Futrelle's District…came into court 
and renewed his Bond with Matthew Lassiter and Everett Lassiter as sureties…

….Littleberry Futrell…..Nicolas Futrell appointed patrols in Captain Futrelle's 
District…


June 8, 1813


….the following Justices are appointed…..John Story, Esquire, in Captain 
Futrelle's District

….Agreeable to an order of Court Jesse Story, David Futrell, and John Nelson 
report they have settled the account of William Underwood, administrator of Moses 
Odom, dec'd.

….John Futrell was juror in case of Willis Roan vs. John Tillery.

….John Futrell as juror in case of Willie Bodie and Frances A. Byrum..

…..John Futrell as juror in case of Matthias Deberry vs. Nathaniel Edwards…

….drawn as juror for September court……Noah Futrell


June 10, 1813


John Futrell as juror in case of David Mason, William Harris, and Henry Soul, 
Henry Leek and Boswell Branch --  debt  

John Futrell as juror in case of Joseph Pinns, Harwood Jones vs. Henry Taylor, 
John Taylor and Benjamin Brown --  debt

John Futrell as juror in case of William E. Moore and William E. Dancy - trespass.

John Futrell as juror in case of Thomas Boone vs. Robert and Britton Johnson-debt, 
Jehu Futrell as surety.

John Futrell in case of James Benford vs. James Brantley & James Wood --  debt


September 6, 1813


Littleberry Newson is bound as apprentice to James Byrd to learn to be a farmer.

Littleberry Futrell is appointed Overseer of the Road from Shuffield's Bridge on 
Pottecasy Creek to Scotchman's Branch…ordered that he keep the same in legal  
repairs.


September 7, 1813
	

Noah Futrell served as juror in the case of Frederick Jones, administrator vs.  
Turner Byrum and Francis Byrum - debt


September 8, 1813


Noah Futrell served as juror in case of the State vs. Hezehiah Wheeler-assault and 
battery….

Noah Futrell served as juror in case of Exum Hollen, administrator vs. The Court, 
property of Winborne Newson.

County Treasurer pays John Futrell 3 pounds, 3 shillings, 8 pence for attending 
Court as a witness in behalf of the State against Frances Saunders.

….ordered that County Treasurer pay William Vann, the sum of 2 pounds, 4 shillings, 
8 pence for attending Court as a witness in behalf of the State vs. Frances 
Saunders.

Lemuel Futrell (p) vs. Thomas Futrell (def): original attachment returned levied.
It appearing to the satisfaction of the Court that the defendant is not a resident 
of the State, it is ordered that publication of this suit be made for six weeks 
successively in the "Hornet's Nest" printed in the town of Murfreesboro that unless 
the defendant appear at the next term of this Court to be holden on the First 
Monday in December next, replay and plead that Judgment will be entered up against 
him and the property levied on be condemned to be sold for the satisfaction of the 
defendants..


*There is a gap between the Northampton County,North Carolina Minutes: Docket, 
Court of Pleas, and Quarter Sessions for the years 1816--1821


Northampton County, North Carolina Minutes:
Docket, Court of Pleas, and Quarter Sessions
1821--1825
(pages 1--449)


March 5, 1821


John Futrell (son of Ephriam) is appointed overseer of the road from Sheffield's 
Bridge to Potecasi Creek to Barnabas Johnson's instead of Britton Johnson. 
(page 333)

….serve as jurors in the Superior Court…Littleberry Futrell…Elliot Futrell  
(page 335)

….serve as jurors  in the next Court of Pleas……Enos Futrell…(page 337)

….Enos Futrell appointed guardian of John Allen, child of Jeremiah Allen…

Littleberry Futrell as sureity to Thomas H. Lawrence, appointed guardian to 
Sally Lawrence, orphan of John Lawrence  (page 338)

The Last Will and Testament of Elizabeth Futrell, dec'd was exhibited in open 
court and proved  in due form of law by oath of Britton Johnson on subscribing 
witness thereto whereupon Cullen Futrell the executor in said will named was 
qualified agreeable to law…(page 340)


March 6, 1821


…..ordered that 25 cts. For poll and 4 cts. on every 100 dollars value of land 
be levied and collected for the parish tax for year 1820.

…..ordered that 30 cts, for Poll and 5 cts. on every hundred dollars of land 
value be levied and collected for purposes of building one or more poor houses 
for paupers..


March  9, 1821


Barnabas West vs. Micajah Futrell-warrant issued in favor of plaintiff…. Page 365)

June 4, 1821, the forty-fifth year of our Independence

……the following persons was appointed…..Mathais Williamson and Elliot Futrell for Senate….Wright Allen's District  (p.1)

….Benjamin Jenkins Deed to Littleberry Futrell, proved by Elliot Futrell… (p.4)


June 5, Tuesday morning, 1821


…. The State of North Carolina vs. Grafford Tyner whether Crafford Tyner is father 
of the child sworn to him by Amelia Johnson or not..the following jury witnessed 
Micah Bosman, Dandridge G. Johnson, John Futrell, Maliki Futrell, William 
Stevenson, Thomas Deloatch, John Lamberson and Britton Johnson, being imperiled 
and sworn in this cause upon their oaths do say they find all the issues in favor 
of the defendant and that the defendant Crafford Tyner is not the father of the 
child as charged.  Judgment by the Court that the defendant pay costs…. (p. 9)

…Jordan Smith vs. Michael Bosman…..the following jury Dandridge G. Johnson, James 
Keats, Samuel Davis, Nathaniel Ingram, Herod Dukes, John Futrell, Malachi Futrell, 
William Stevenson, Thomas Deloatch, John Lamberton, Britton Johnson, and Crafford 
Tyner be imperiled and sworn to try the issues joined the parties upon their oaths 
do say that they find all the issues in favor of the plaintiff and assess his 
damages to $47.39; judgment by the court that the plaintiff recover  of the 
defendant the sum of $325 the debts in obligation….the damages aforesaid and 
costs….(p. 9)

….James Oliver vs. Micajah Futrell; warrant issued by John Peele, Justice of the 
Peace, returnable at Conner's Schoolhouse and executed by James Parker, Constable 
upon which the following proceedings were endorsed to witness March 24, 1821; 
judgment by former judgment granted to plaintiff for the sum of $24.25…and costs 
40 cts…   (p. 12)

….Elizabeth Hagerty vs. Jesse Futrell and John Peele, Esq. Levy in others a warrant 
issued and signed by Everett Stancell, Squire, a Justice of the Peace, returnable 
by Jesse Smith, exe. By Giles Luter, Constable, upon the following proceedings were 
endorsed to witness, 1819, April 13; judgment granted the plaintiff $17.92, proved 
by plaintiff…and costs  50 cts..
     

March 3, 1820 


…exe. And made agreeable to Zachias Martin, June 2, 1820 for $10.09 in favor of 
Giles Lassiter  (p.13)


June 7, 1821 


…execute on land of Thomas Futrell….Thomas Futrell adjoining lands of Hosea 
Futrell and others to satisfy the above judgment and costs…signed John Lamberton 
and bond; a motion of the plaintiff it is ordered by the court that the land 
levied be sold by Sheriff in order to satisfy the  plaintiff's judgment and costs 
according to an act of Assembly in such ends made and provided so that he make 
return of the same to the next court….. (p.13)

John D. Johnson vs. Jesse Futrell and others..this was a warrant issued and 
signed by John Peele esq., a  Justice of the Peace, returnable at Connor's 
Schoolhouse and executed by John Lamberton, upon which the following proceedings 
were endorsed…to wit….May 27, 1820 judgment in favor of the plaintiff for the 
sum of $4.37, costs 60 cts….signed John Peele….executiion stayed the same day 
by giving for security Henry Jenkins…

….May, 1821….executed of the land of Jesse Futrell and Henry Jenkins, adjoining 
the land of David Futrell and others for the above judgment interest and costs 
one dollar…..signed John Lamberton….in motion of the plaintiff it is ordered by 
the court that the lands levied on be sold by the sheriff in order to satisfy the 
plaintiffs judgment and costs according to an Act of Assembly in such cases made 
and provided and that he make return of the same to the next court…...(p. 13)

Daniel Southall vs. Jesse Futrell and others…this was a warrant issued and signed 
by John Peel, esq., a Justice of the Peace, returnable at Connor's Schoolhouse 
and executed by John Lamberton, Constable, upon which the following proceedings 
were endorsed….to wit…May 27, 1820 judgment in favor of the plaintiff for the sum 
of $10.00, costs 40 cts……execution stayed the same day for security Henry Jenkins, 
Testator John Peele…

…Stephen McCleny vs. Micajah Futrell; a warrant issued and signed by John Peel, 
Esquire, Justice of the Peace, returnable to Conner's Schoolhouse by James Parker, 
Constable, upon which the following privileges are endorsed to witness; April 28, 
1821; judgment in favor of plaintiff for $1.79 and costs 40 cts….(p. 14)


June 2, 1821  


…John Peel exe. For land of Micajah Futrell above sum $1.00 and Thomas Futrell 
and costs 80 cts.; land adjoining Benjamin Jenkins and others.  ..Signed John 
Lamberton.  (p. 15)

…Josepheus Hewitt vs. Micajah Futrell; a warrant signed by Jesse Long, Esquire; 
Justice of the Peace, returnable of Conner's Schoolhouse and executed by John 
Lamberton, Constable, upon which the following procedures were endorsed; to 
witness April 15, 1821, judgment in favor of the plaintiff in the amount of $2.02, 
costs…….  Signed John Peel…..to law signed J.S. Story, June  2, 1821; execute and 
sell agreeable to the law John Peel, June, 1821; execute on the land of Micajah 
Futrell for the above judgment…; costs 80 cts….adjoining the land of Benjamin 
Jenkins and others….signed John Lamberton, by motion of the plaintiff is ordered 
by the court that the land levied on be sold by the Sheriff in order to satisfy 
the plaintiff's judgment and costs according to an Act of Assembly in such cases 
made in provided that he make return of the same to the next court…   
(p. 15)

…James Parker vs. Thomas Futrell; this is a warrant signed by John Peel, Esquire, 
Justice of the Peace returnable to Conner's Schoolhouse and witnessed by John 
Lamberton the following proceedings were endorsed May 8, 1821 judgment in favor 
of the plaintiff for the sum of $29.39 and costs 40 cts…. (p. 15)

…..John Peel May 14, 1821; the court of above….judgment for Samuel Parker, May 19, 
1821 exe. And sell agreeable to law, signed John Peele…..June 2, 1821…exe. Lands 
of Thomas Futrell for the above judgment and costs, adjoining land of Thomas 
Futrell and others; signed John Lamberton on motion of plaintiff it is endorsed by 
the court; costs according to Acts of Assembly in such areas made and provided he 
make return of the same to the next court………

….Southall and Capehart…this was a warrant signed by John Peel, esq. And Justice 
of the Peace and returnable at Conner's Schoolhouse and exe. By John Lamberton 
upon which the following proceedings were endorsed….March 24, 1821 judgment 
granted the plaintiff for $11.13 and costs $1.20…..

…..April 19, 1821 exe. And sell agreeable to Acts of Assembly; John Peel, 

….May 7, 1821 exe. As law of Jesse Futrell and Henry Jenkins adjoining 
the land of Jenkins and David Futrell and others; to witness the oboe judgment and 
costs for want of other property; signed John Lamberton on motion of plaintiff it 
is ordered by the Court that the land be sold by the Sheriff in order to satisfy 
the plaintiff's judgment and that he make return of the same to the court…

…Anson Jeffries vs. Thomas Futrell….this was a  warrant signed by John Peel, esq., 
exe. By John Lamberton, Constable, upon which the following proceedings were 
endorsed to witness; October 28, 1821 in judgment in favor of the plaintiff in the 
sum of $27.44 and costs 40 cts.; signed John Peel; exe. Stamped the same day by 
giving surety, signed Thomas Lassiter…

…John Peel, May 19, 1821 exe. And sell agreeable to law on land of Thomas Futrell 
adjoining the land of Hosea Futrell and others to satisfy the above judgment.  
Constable Lamberton, the motion of the plaintiff is ordered by the Court that the 
land levied on be sold by the Court in order to justify the plaintiff's judgment 
and costs according to an Act of Assembly in such case made and provided that he 
make return of the same to the next Court….

Nancy Futrell vs. Thomas Jenkins…a warrant signed by John Peel, Justice of the 
Peace, returnable at Connor's Schoolhouse and exe. By John Lamberton. Constable 
upon which the following proceedings were endorsed March 24, 1821, judgment 
granted the plaintiff in  sum of $3.02 and costs 40 cts.

…..April 19, 1821 execute and sell agreeable to law John Peel….executed to the 
lands of Henry Jenkins and adjoining the lands of David Futrell and others to 
satisfy the above judgment and costs 80 cts….signed John Lamberton.

Mary Nelson vs. Thomas Futrell….warrant issued and signed by Justice of the Peace 
John Peel returnable at Connor's Schoolhouse and exe. By John Lamberton on which 
the following proceedings were endorsed April 21, 1821 judgment in favor of 
plaintiff for $43.50 and costs 40 cts…..signed John Peel………June 2, 1821 execute 
and sell agreeable to law John Peel……execute on land of Thomas Futrell for above 
judgment and costs lands of Hosea Futrell and others….signed John Lamberton….  
(p. 16) …on  motion of the plaintiff it is ordered by the court that the land 
levied on be sold by the sheriff in order to satisfy the plaintiff's judgment 
and costs according to an Act of Assembly in such cases made and provided that 
he make return of the same to the next court…….

Elliot Futrell ___________ and others…Britton Faison, de facto vs. Jesse Woodard 
and Britton Woodard, debt……the defendants not having entered their appearance 
according to the rules of the Court, it is considered by the county that the 
plaintiff becomes defendant $125, the debt and obligation declared as mentioned 
with interest from the 3rd of November 1817 till paid…and costs….. (p. 16)

….the following persons was drawn to serve as jurors at the next county court…
William Ivey, Willis Edwards, Burwell Woody, Amos Parker, William H. Hardy, 
Dallon Yellowly, John Edwards, Micajah Edwards, Robert Sykes, John Woodard, 
Arthur Sykes, John Glove, Henry Howell, Edmund Peel, Willie Futrell, Matthew 
Boon, Samuel Stancell, Thomas Peel, Samuel Davis, Thomas Daughtry, Thomas 
Deloatch, James Isaiah, Jesse Vann, Kitchen Bridgers, William Buofot, Merrit 
King, Elijah Landors, Joseph Pennys, Peter Black, Norman Brand, Michael 
Edmonds, son-in-law, James Edwards, Howard Peel, Lewis Barker, Jeremiah Outland 
and Lewis Futrell…ordered that the Sheriff summon them to attend ….. (p. 18)

….the following Grand Jury was formed and charged….John S. Edwards, Robert Snipes, 
Norman Brand, Thomas Daughtry, Thomas Deloatch, Willis Edwards, Arthur Luter, 
Samuel Stancell,  Samuel Davis, Peter Black, Samuel Edwards, Kitchen Bridgers, 
James Bellow, Dallon Yellowly, Michah Edwards, William Boufot, John Woodard, 
Willie Futrell, and H. Hasile, foreman..


September 3, 1821


….the following Grand Jury were called and charged to serve as jurors at the next 
county court…to witness…..John Nelson, Edwin Drake,  James Wilson, James Oliver, 
Benjamin Stephens, Exum Smith, Exum Odom, Peter Reems,Newelle Grant, James Benford, 
James Daniel, John Hyler, Jonathan Gay, James Peel, Joshua Benford, Willie Key, 
George Jordan, Charles Hosea, Michael Vinson, Jesse Dardon, Hugh Benford, Joel Peel, 
Exum Holloman, John Landerferu….John Futrell (son of Ephraim), Jesse Sykes, 
Nasworthy Rutner, Sterling Davis, James Exum, Joseph Johnson, Benjamin Boon, 
William Richardson, William Madry, Dempsey Taylor and John Powell….
(p. 25)


September 4, 1821


…the following persons was drawn to serve as jurors at the next court to be held 
for the county of Northampton on the fifth Monday after the fourth Monday in 
September to witness…William Underwood, William Ames, John Edwards…….Bashly, 
Ethelred Bridgers, William Wade, John Futrell, (son of John), William Exum, Daniel 
Vinson, John Hall, William Boon, William W. Watkins, Zachias Martin, Allen Berkeley, 
Jesse Story, Barnabas Wells, John Taylor, James Boon, James Brown, Jason Benjamin, 
William Grant,  Exum Hughes, Britton Faison, Charles Walpole, David Langford, 
Samuel Thomason, Cornelius Moore, Benjamin Harrison, James Vinson, Silas Lassiter, 
James Crop, Richard Fara, Bridgers Faison, Benjamin Parsons, Hosea Futrell, David 
Rutland, and William Deloatch…ordered that the Sheriff summon them to court…

…..ordered that the court adjourn until tomorrow morning……. (p. 25)


September 4, 1821 (Tuesday)


….the following deeds, bills of sale….acknowledged or proven in open court…..ordered 
to be certified and registered…

Elisha Byrd to Edwin D. Smith, Deed in court proved by John Brown..

Jordan Smith to Thomas Boon by deed, proved by William Bryant…(p. 26)

Henry D. Jenkins to Benjamin Jenkins, Deed proved by David Futrell…

Arthur Stevenson Deed of Gift to Mary Futrell, proved by John Stevenson and others…..

Zachias Martin, William Wade, Thomas Odom, Nicolas Maget, Kitchen Sykes, Jessie Sykes, 
Sterling Davis, Willis Edwards, Jessie Lassiter, William Edwards and Buxton Allen are 
appointed patrollers in District #8 for 12 months…..

George Edmunds, Daniel Vinson, Turner Peebles, Jacob Sykes, Jesse Watson, John Powell, 
Arthur Tyner, Collen Barnes, Jesse Cross, Elia Johnson, Amos Parker, John Magget, 
Jesse Vann, Thomas Haynes, Elias Deberry….are appointed patrollers in District #12 
for one year…. (p. 28)

…..ordered that Jesse Cross, Collen Barnes, Allen Deberry, esquires; Turner Peebles 
and Jesse Vann or any three audit and settle additional account current of the estate 
of Joyce Long, Jacob Skiles, her executor...

……ordered that the County Treasurer pay Thomas Futrell the sum of $393 for rebuilding 
the bridges across Potecasi Creek known by the name of Burnt Bridges….

….the following jury Lewis Futrell, Wright Allen and Benjamin Rogers….being imperiled 
and  sworn to try the issues  joined between parties upon their oaths to say they find 
all the issues in favor of the plaintiff…… 
(p. 32)

Goosley & Gregory vs. Cornelius Moore…..serving as jurors….Jesse Vann…..Lewis Futrell…. 
(p. 36)


September 7, 1821


The Governor for Buxton  Allen  vs. Rhoda Berkeley and Turner Peebles, Debt….Jesse 
Vann and Lewis Futrell…. (p. 37)

William Lockhart vs. David Futrell and others, Debt…..the defendant not having entered 
their appearance according to the rules of the court, it is considered by the Courts 
that the plaintiff recover of the defendant $241.56, the debt in obligation declared 
or mentioned with interest from 24 February, 1821 till paid and costs…..

James W. Moore  & others to Court, Petition for Partition….ordered that the Sheriff 
summon to attend on the premises and qualify Collin Barnes, Elliot Futrell…..and John 
Futrell together with James H. Wood, County Surveyor, who shall divide and appropriate 
said lands among the petitioners agreeable to the Last Will and Testament of William E. 
Moore, dec.d and make report of their proceedings to court….. (p. 43)

George Williamson and wife & others to Court, Petition for Partition….ordered that the 
Sheriff summon to attend upon the premises and qualify Willie Futrell, James Grant, 
James Wheeler, Elias Langford, and Jesse Lassiter….along with….. (p. 44)

James W. Moore & others to Court, Petition for Partition…..ordered that the Sheriff…..
and qualify Collen Barnes, Elliot Futrell….and John Futrell….together with James Wood….agreeable to the Last Will and Testament of William E. Moore.


December 3, 1821


….the following Grand Jury was sworn and charged (to wit)….Drewry Phillips, James Oliver,…..John Futrell,….Sterling Davis…. (p. 49)

….Elijah Futrell is appointed overseer of the roads from Josiah Outland's to the Burnt 
Bridges instead of Jordan Jacobs…(p. 50)

Elijah and Mary Futrell, Deed  of Gift toSarah and Jeremiah Daughtry, ackd by Elijah 
Futrell and proved by Jesse Cross…….  (p. 53)


December 4, 1821


The State of North Carolina  for the Benefit of Lydia Futrell vs. Joseph Bryan, Bastardy……ordered and decreed by the Court that the plaintiff Lydia Futrell recover 
of the defendant Joseph Bryan $25 to be paid the following manner…$15 to be paid 
immediately, the residue to be paid in 6 annual equal payments for the maintenance 
and support of the base born child begotten by the said Joseph Bryan in and upon the 
body of the said Lydia Futrell, if the said child should live so long…….  (p. 60)

The Heirs of John Futrell  to the Court; Petition for Partition…..ordered that the 
Sheriff summon……qualify Jesse Cross, James H. Wood, Noah Odom, Collen W. Barnes, and 
Jesse Story, freeholders….. (p. 65)


March 4, 1822


Micajah Futrell, Deed to Anne Futrell, proved by Zachias Martin..  (p. 70)

Everett Lassiter, Bill of Sale, to Elizabeth Futrell , proved by Lemuel Futrell..
(p. 70)

Asa Byrd, Deed in Trust to John Castassum for the use of John Hathcock, proven by 
Handy Cobb.

James Oliver, Deed to Enos Futrell, proven by James Wood.

Ethelred Peebles, Sheriff, Deed to Hosea Futrell ackd  (p. 71)

Noah Futrell is appointed overseer of Road from  Sheffields Bridge on Potecasi to 
Barnaba Johnson's instead of John Futrell….. (p. 72)

Lewis Woodard relinquished his guardianship to Penny Dickerson, Isaac and 
Littleberry Futrell, children of John Futrell whereupon John D. Futrell was 
appointed guardian to said children who entered into bond in the penalty of $1000 
with Jesse Story and John Lamberton, sureties…..  (p. 74)

…..ordered that James Wright, James Moore and Elliot Futrell or any two of the 
three audit and settle the accounts between Lewis Woodard former guardian to 
Penelope Dickerson, Isaac and Littleberry Futrell, with John D. Futrell present 
guardian to said children and make reports thereof to next June Court…… (p. 74)

………jurors for next Supreme Court……Noah Futrell  (p. 75)

……..jurors at next county court ….Enos Futrell….Jason Futrell…..

Tax Laid…….ordered that 40 cts. Poll and 7 cts. On every hundred dollars value of 
land be levied and collected for the county tax for the year 1821….ordered that 20 
cts. For poll and 4 cts. For every hundred dollars value of land be levied and 
collected for the parish tax.

James H. Grant  renewed his bond as guardian to Edmund Byrd, orphan of Jesse Byrd 
decd, the penalty of $1000w. Herod Grant and William Grant, sureties… (p. 81)

….the following jurors were summoned…….John Futrell…..(p. 82)

Jesse Smith renewed his bond as guardian to Susanna Futrell, orphan of Dempsey 
Futrell decd in the penalty of $500 with Amos Parker and Giles Lewter sureties…..
(p. 86)


March 7, 1822:
Northampton County, NC Ferry Rates
March, 1822


*Ferry Rates at Pride's (or Harris) Amos Bridgers, Polluck's Norfleet's and 
Edwards' Ferry

---For each four wheel carriage of Pleasure including team driver and passengers………………………………………………………………………………………40 cts.
---For each four wheel (ditto) of burden including team driver and load………………………………………………………………………………………………50 cts.
---For each two wheel (ditto) of pleasure including team driver and passengers……………………………………………………………………………………..20 cts.
---For each hogshead of tobacco including team driver and passenger………………………………………………………………………………………20 cts.
---For each two wheel carriage of burden including team driver and load……………………………………………………………………………………………..20 cts.
---For each man and horse……………………………………………………………..5 cts.
---For each foot passenger……………………………………………………………….3 cts.
---For each loose horse, mule, cow or Jack………………………………………..2cts
---For each hog or goat carried or swam over…………………………………..1 cts.
---For each barrel or cask not in a carriage and its contents……………1 cts.
---For each barrel of loose corn, either shelled or in the ears, not in a 
carriage or on a horse…………………………………………………………………….5 cts.


*At Wilkins and Moore's Ferry as follows (viz..)

---For each four wheel carriage of Pleasure including team driver and passengers………………………………………………………………………………………50 cts.
---For each four wheel carriage of burden including team driver and load……………………………………………………………………………………………….60 cts.
---For each two wheel carriage of pleasure including team driver and passenger………………………………………………………………………………………. 25 cts.
---For each hogshead of tobacco including team driver and passenger………………………………………………………………………………………..25 cts.
---For each two wheel carriage of burden including team driver and load……………………………………………………………………………………………….30 cts.
---For each man and horse…………………………………………………………12 ½ cts.
---For each foot passenger……………………………………………………………. 6 ¼ cts.
---For each horse, cow, mule or Jack…………………………………………………5 cts.
---For each hog, sheep, or goat carried or swam over………………………..3 cts.
---For each barrel or cask not in a carriage and its  contents………….3 cts.
---For each barrel of loose corn , either shelled or in the ears, not in a 
carriage or on a horse……………………………………………………………………6 ¼ cts.



Tavern Rates for the County of Northampton, NC
(March, 1822)

Ordered that the following tavern rates be established in Northampton County 
for twelve months..  (spirits by the half pint)

Dinner……………………………………………. 50 cts.

Supper…………………………………………….. 37 ½ cts.

Breakfast………………………………………… 37 ½ cts.

Horsefeed………………………………………..  25 cts.

Half pint French Brandy…………………. 50 cts.

Holland Gin……………………………………. 25 cts.

Sherry Wine…………………………………….. 25 cts.

Country Wine………………………………….. 15 cts.

West Indian Rum……………………………. 20 cts.

New England Rum………………………….. 10 cts.

Rectified Whiskey……………………………. 20 cts.

Common Whiskey……………………………. 12 ½ cts.

Old Apple Brandy…………………………… 20 cts.

Northward Brandy…………………………. 10 cts.

French Brandy Toddy…………………….. 30 cts.

All other kinds of Toddies………………. 25 cts.

      Lodging………………………………………… 12 ½ cts.



(page 88)


March 7, 1822


Friday morning, March 8, 1822


Jesse H. Wood and J.W. Harrison in facto vs Jesse Vann & others, DEBT

…..the same jury being imperiled and sworn upon their oaths do say they find 
the bond to be the acts and of the defendants that there are no payments or set 
off, that the money mentioned in the bond in the value of $114. 79 cts with 
interest from the 12th April, 1821…..judgment by the Court accordingly  that the 
plaintiff recover of the defendant the sum of one hundred fourteen dollars and 
seventy-nine cents with interest from 12th April til paid and costs….(p. 100)


Monday, 5th day of June, 1822


…..the following gentlemen was drawn and charged as Grand Jurors  (to wit.)…….
Jason Futrell……Enos Futrell.. (p. 101)

Nancy Futrell, Deed of Gifts  to David Futrell, proved by Zachias Martin

Willie Futrell  proved Deed of Sale Britton Parker to William Grant..(p. 102)

Deed of Sale, William Lassiter to Solomon Brewer proved by Willie Futrell
(p. 102)

The following persons were drawn to serve as jurors at the next Court of Pleas 
and Quarter Sessions to be held for the County of Northampton on the first Monday 
in September next (to wit.)…..Jason Futrell…ordered that the Sheriff summon them 
to attend Court……  (p. 103)

…..ordered that…..Elliot Futrell, Willie Futrell….and David Futrell..or any two 
of the three settle the accounts of John and Jason Manns, esq. Of William Mann, 
decd and divide the estate of said deceased agreeable to Last Will and Testament…

…..Sabra Futrell renewed her Bond and Guardian to William Futrell, orphan of 
Sampson Futrell, dec.d in penalty of five thousand dollars with John Futrell and 
Elliot Futrell sureties..

….Dempsey Walden renewed his Bond and Guardian to David Byrd, orphan of Jesse Byrd 
decd in the penalty of $500 with Sterling Hathcock and William Walden, sureties…


Thursday, 6th day of June, 1822


John T. Benn vs Lemuel Futrell & others, Trespass 
….the same jury being imperiled and sworn to try the issues joined between the 
parties and the plaintiff not persuing his remedy according to law…it was ordered 
by the Court that he be non-suited and that the defendant recover of the plaintiff 
his costs by him in this suit most wrongfully appended…from which judgment the 
plaintiff arrayed an appeal to the next Superior Court to be held in the County of 
Northampton of the 5th Monday after the 4th Monday in September next, which was 
granted, he having entered into Bonds and Sureties agreeable to law…… (p. 112)


Monday, 2nd day of September, 1822


….the following Grand Jury was sworn…..Jason Futrell….

John Peebles, Sheriff Deed to Noah Futrell proved by James Harts (p. 123)…

Nancy Futrell vs Britton Johnson….Giles Lewter and Joel Pierce appeared in open court 
and acknowledged themselves sureties for the prosecution of this suit on the part of 
the plaintiff…..(p. 123)

….the following jurors was drawn on 1st Monday of December next……Hosea Futrell…John Futrell…Cullen Futrell….

…Enos Futrell….4th Monday of September next……


Tuesday, 3rd day of September 1822


….ordered that the County Treasurer pay John Vann $29.10 for attending the Superior 
Court as a witness in behalf of the State against John Taylor…..
(p. 132)

Lemuel Futrell is appointed Overseer of the road from Burnt Bridges to William 
Cryens instead of James Dickerson.

…Elliot Futrell license for Tavern…..


Wednesday, 4th day of September 1822


State of North Carolina vs. Jesse Futrell, John Futrell, Jason Futrell and Charles Jenkins…acknowledge themselves in debt to said State as Bastardy recognition 
follows…Jesse Futrell $100…John Futrell, Jason Futrell, and Charles Jenkins his 
sureties the sum of $50 each..


Thursday, 5th day of September, 1822


Jesse Vann vs James Dickerson….Ethelred Peebles his bond….


December 2, 1822


William Byrd to Nathaniel Stevenson…..

…..the following jury summoned……John Futrell…..Hosea Futrell….Cullen Futrell……

…..ordered that….Alex Futrell, John Futrell, and Enos Futrell audit and settle 
the accounts of Zachias Martin..

The State of North Carolina for the benefits of  Priscila Parks, Bastardy
vs Sterling Davis…Parks to recover $75…..

The State of North Carolina for the benefits of Rebecca Vincents vs Jesse Futrell, Bastardy…Vincents recovers $75 and costs….

Elijah Futrell appointed patrol in District # 11 for twelve months…


Monday, 3rd day of March, 1823


Cullen Futrell Deed to Edwin Futrell proved by Thomas Joyner….(p. 171)

….ordered that William Grant, esq., Shadrach Grant, Willie Futrell, James Brown, 
and Hezekiah Revel or any three of them divide the negroes belonging to the estate 
of John Darden, Sr. decd and make report to court…

James Wood elected Sheriff; John Harrison elected County Treasurer. (page 197)

….jurors selected for the first Monday of September next….John Futrell, son of 
Ephriam Futrell.

Handy Cobb, Allen Deberry, and Noah Odom elected Justices of the Peace.   
(p. 197)

….ordered that Elliot Futrell…audit and setlle the accounty of Lewis Underwood,
administrator for Barnaba Johnson.
June 4, 1823

Allen Deberry, John Peebles, Carter Jones, Hardy Cobb elected as Justices..


September 1, 1823


….the following gentlemen sworn as Grand Jurors….John Futrell (page 208).

….jurors for the first Monday of December….Hosea Futrell


September 2, Tuesday, 1823


Lemuel Futrell appointed overseer of road from Josiah Outlands to the Burnt Bridge 
over Potecasi Creek instead of Elijah Furell.  (page 215)

Jesse Vann vs. James Dickerson - trespass

State of North Carolina vs. Lemuel Futrell and others - recognition to appear and 
keep the peace….Lemuel Futrell, William Futrell, John Futrell, and Lewis Futrell, 
each fined $100.


Monday, December 1, 1823


William Moody, Zachias Martin, Allen Deberry  appointed as Justices.

….sworn to serve as Grand Juror….Hosea Futrell.

John Futrell, Bill of Sale to Wright Allen,  proved by Charles Edwards. (page 231)

Nancy Futrell to Zachias Martin proved by Jesse Sykes.

John Vann, executor of estate and Last Will and Testament of Jesse Cross (? Crop).

Edwin Futrell, appointed overseer of road from Shuffield's Bridge on Potecasi Creek 
to Barnabas Johnson's instead of John Futrell.


December 2, 1823


…jurors summoned to the March Court…Willie Futrell   (p.240)


Monday, March 1, 1824


Enos Futrell appointed guardian to John Allen, orphan of Jeremiah Allen.  
(page 350)

Last Will and Testament of Josiah Blanchard proved by oath of William Vann and 
Jordan Lassiter.  (page 361)

John Vann was left executor in Last Will and Testament of Jesse Cross.  


Tuesday, March 2, 1824


….the following persons drawn as jurors for the next Supreme Court…..Littleberry 
Futrell  

….elected as juror to the next county court William Futrell.


June 7, 1824


John D. Futrell's deed to Thomas Boone proved by Joel Conner.  (page 283)


June 8, 1824


….ordered that County Treasurer pay Sterling Davis 90 cts. For attending Superior 
Court as a witness against Buxton Allen.  (page 287)


Monday, September 6, 1824


Britton Johnson's Deed to David Futrell proved by Hosea Futrell  (page 300)

Lemuel Nelson's Deed to Cullen Futrell, proved by Zachias Martin.

Micajah Futrell Deed to Britton Johnson, proved by David Futrell.

…..settle the account between John Vann, executor of Jesse Cross, dec'd and heirs 
of Edwin Ricks  (page 302)

Jason Futrell appointed overseer of road from Burnt Bridge to William Cryer's   
instead of John Benn.  (page 303)


September 7, 1824


John Vann, executor; Barnabas West, plaintiff vs. Arthur Tyner - debt  (page 312)

Thomas Burgess, assignee vs. John Vann, Executor, H. - debt  (page 314)


Wednesday, September  8, 1824


Zachias Matin vs. John Vann, executor, -- debt


December 6, 1824


Grand Jurors sworn …..Noah Futrell  (page 324)

Deed, Arthur Davis to Sterling Davis, acknowledged; Arthur Davis deed to Clarissa 
Parks, proved by William Wade  (page 325)

Deed, Jordan Davis to Sterling Davis proved by Noah Odom.

Last Will and Testament of Richard Grant proved by Willie Futrell, the executor..
(page 330)


December 7, 1824


….. chosen as Court of Pleas juror….Enos Futrell…Jason Futrell

…..Court of Pleas jurors in March…Enos Futrell…Jason Futrell

Clary Parks vs. Thomas Bynum-Bastardy Bonds  (page 332)

….ordered that John Peel, Esquire; Jesse More, Byrum Randolph and John Futrell, Sr. 
or any three of them let to the lowest undertaker after giving due notice the 
rebuilding or repairing of the Burnt Bridges across Potecasi Creek and make report 
thereof to the next Court…..

The State of North Carolina vs. Ledbetter Law; indictment Pettit Larcency….jurors…
John Futrell….Cullen Futrell.. (page 333)


December 8, 1824


Administration of all and singular the goods and chattels rights and credits of 
Silry Futrell dec'd is granted to Isaac Woodard who entered into bond in the 
penalty of $1000 with Wright Allen and Jont William Vann sureties and was qualified 
agreeable according to law….(page 336)

…..ordered that Isaac Woodard Administrator of Silvry Futrell dec'd settle the 
perishable estate of his intestate on 6 months credit and make report thereof to 
the next court.


December 9, 1824


…..ordered that ……Willie Futrell….audit and settle the accounts of Josiah Parker  
(page 337)


March 7, 1825


…Grand Juror chosen….Jason Futrell  (page 347)

John Vann executor, deed to Thomas Deans proved by Jesse Davidson  (page 349)

Court of Pleas….June jurors chosen…..John Futrell


March 8, 1825


James Grant renewed bond of guardianship to Edmund Byrd, orphan of Jesse Byrd, 
dec'd in penalty of $500…. (page 363)


March 11, 1825


John Nelson vs. Cullen Futrell-trespasss…. (page 375)


June 6, 1825


…..grand jurors sworn….John Futrell

John D. Futrell renewed his guardianship of Penelope, Dickerson, Isaac, and 
Littleberry Futrell, orphans of John David Futrell.  (page 382)


June 7, 1825


Jesse Vann paid as witness $10.60 cts. As witness in State against James 
Dickerson.


September 5, 1825


….Grand Jurors sworn in…Lewis Futrell

December Court jurors in Court of Pleas chosen…Littleberry Futrell….Elliot 
Futrell….Hosea Futrell….Jason Futrell..

Superior Court jurors sworn..Lewis Futrell…Willie Futrell

Lewis Futrell appointed overseer of Burnt Bridges..

…jurors for the next Court of Pleas for December sworn….Littleberry Futrell…
Elliot Futrell….Jason Futrell…

…jurors for the State Supreme Court sworn…Lewis Futrell….Willie Futrell  
(page 403)


December 5, 1825


…. Grand Jury sworn…..Littleberry Futrell…

Deed; John Peebles to Willie Byrd proved by Etheldred Peebles  (page 429)

Administration of all and singular the goods and chattels rights and credits
of Jesse Vann dec'd is granted to Jane Vann entered into bond $2500… (page 433)

….ordered that Jane Vann sell perishable estate of Jesse Vann, dec'd.

License is granted Joseph Moody and David Futrell to retail spirits of liquor…


December 6, 1825


….jurors sworn for Court of Pleas….Enos Futrell….John Futrell, son of Sampson 
Futrell  (page 436)


*NOTE:  Many of the pages in these documents were ruined, faded; and, in many 
cases, variance in  the handwritings of the clerks of court, makes them very 
difficult to read.  There are wide gaps in the clerk's notes for some years 
(notably from 1796-1813 and 1816-1821) and often the pages were not numbered.  
These referemces have been transcribed to the best of my ability from the 
original pages on microfilm.

__________________________________________________________________________

USGENWEB NOTICE: In keeping with our policy of providing free information 
on the Internet, data may be used by non-commercial entities, as long as 
this message remains on all copied material. The electronic pages may NOT 
be reproduced in any format for profit or for presentation by other persons 
or organizations. Persons or organizations desiring to use this material 
for purposes other than stated above must obtain the written consent of the 
file contributor, and contact the listed USGenWeb archivist with proof of 
this consent. The submitter has given permission to the USGenWeb Archives 
to store the file permanently for free access.
__________________________________________________________________________